Last Updated: APril 11, 2017

This directory contains several example input files demonstrating various
features of the crystal plasticity (CP) model.

1. The hardening_and_temperature directory contains models which show the effect of
   rate and temperature on the CP model hardening formulation.  These models
   also demonstrate how to construct reduced, homogenized polycrystal models where
   each material point contains many different crystal orientations (reduced via
   the Taylor approximation).  These examples use the empirical Stage IV hardening
   option.

   The files "isothermal_600K.inp" "isothermal_RT.inp," and
   "cottrell_stokes.inp" represent a homogenized polycrystal in isothermal tension
   at two temperatures and in a combined isothermal loading, unloading, cooling,
   isothermal loading history representing a Cottrel-Stokes test.  Results of
   all three models are summarized in the plot "cs_plot.svg/pdf."  These
   input files demonstrate the effect of temperature on the
   hardening formulation. They also show the effect of strain rate,
   as changing the load step without carefully (correspondingly) changing the time
   step results in an abrupt transition in strain rate, causing a small "jog" in
   the stress-strain response (labeled on graph).

2. Files in the size_effect directory demonstrate non-homogenized CPFEM models
   and the geometric Stage IV hardening option. These two models
   are identical "cubes of cubic grains," where the only difference
   between the models is the grain size.  With a non-gradient-enhanced model the
   response of the two models as they are deformed in tension to some common
   level of strain is identical. However, the gradient Stage IV hardening
   introduces a size-effect, where the model with smaller grain sizes (and hence
   steeper grain gradients) shows more hardening than the model with larger grains.
   This can be viewed as a physical Hall-Petch-type effect.
   The simulations generate files needed for ParaView post-processing.

3. The model in the mpi_restart directory demonstrates running
   the crystal plasticity model in parallel with MPI domain decomposition.  It also
   demonstrates that the restart capability of WARP3D works with the CP material
   model, including restarts of unhomogenized models where the angles are input
   from a separate flat file.
   Results files are generated for post-processing with ParaView.
   
 