

Finite element models for 3-D fracture analyses
-----------------------------------------------

This directory contains ready-to-run WARP3D input files for
standard fracture specimens. Some models are all set up for
finite strain solutions and some are setup for crack growth.
Most have additional commands included to extract J-integral values.
They are set up for a variety of parallel execution (domain
decomposition for a set number of processors). All input files
can be run in threaded execution.

   ct_side_grooves1 -- C(T) specimen with 10% (ea. side) side-grooves, no growth,
                       focused mesh, 2 way MPI parallel

   sct        -- surface crack tension specimen, no growth, focused mesh,
                 4 way parallel

   sct_growth -- surface crack tension specimen, cell mesh along
                 front for crack growth. Has 50 load steps.

   sct_growth_complete -- same as above but with 200 load steps for
                 full crack growth analysis. extracts J on remote domains
                  at point of max crack depth

   pcvn_sg_large_model -- very fined model of PCVN specimen. Model has
                  side grooves, no crack groth, domain integral evaulations 
                  across front. 20 node bricks.

   seb        -- plane-sided SE(B)  specimen, no growth, focused mesh,
                 2 way parallel 

   seb_side_grooves  -- SE(B) specimen with 10% (ea. side) side-grooves, no growth,
                 focused mesh, 2 way parallel

   seb_one_layer -- shallow crack SE(B) with one layer of 8-node elements
                 and plane-strain constraints. Finite deformation, mises
                 plasticity, J-computation. Runs very fast. *** Good beginning
                 example problem ***. Has lots of comments.

   ssy_growth -- input file (not directory). 1 layer plane-strain,
                 semi-circular boundary layer model subjected to remote
                 Ki field (T=0). model has cells along crack plane
                 to support crack growth using gurson constitutive
                 model and element death. runs very quickly. 
                 R-goes flat, lots of elements killed.

   ssy3d_large -- very large SSY model in 3D. 444,000 nodes 104150 elements
                 20-node elements, small-strains, power-law mises, no crack growth.
                 Run-time virtual size: 34 GB. Woking set 25GB.

   ssy        -- simple 1 layer, plane-strain model of the SSY
                 boundary layer problem. no gcrack growth. has initial
                 notch root radius for finite strain analysis.

   ct_ctoa     -- 3-D crack growth via critical CTOA. 2-layers of
                 elements over half-thickness. out-of-plane displacements
                 prevented. enforced uniform growth along front.
                 models tearing in very thin Al material.


   mt_cohes   -- 3-D crack growth model using interface-cohesive 
                 elements. out-of-plane displacements due to the
                 negative T-stress. Uses the simpler, 2 parameter
                 exponential model.

  pressure_vessel -- very large model of a bullet shaped pressure 
                      vessel with a nozzle. 20-node brick elements.
                      no crack in model, internal pressure loading.   
                      linear elastic analysis. 

   welded_beam... -- large model of a welded connection between a
                     steel beam and steel column used in buildings.
                     model contains a crack across the beam flange.
                     dynamic analyis, set up for 4 way parallel
                     execution.
                     

     mt_half -- 1/2 symmetric model of an M(T) specimen. 20-node bricks
              with collapsed front elements. element have repeated
              nodes. remote axial loading and crack face loading.
              linear elastic material. the model has +,- crack faces.

   ssy_sharp -- 1 layer, plane strain model of the SSY boundary layer
                model with fouced, collapsed elements at tip. For
                small strain analysis. accompanying F-90 program
                writes displacements to apply K-T field on outer
                circular boundary. Model is set up with T=0 loading.

   corner_at_hole -- flat plate with a circular hole. corner crack
                     at hole. remote tension loading. deformation
                     plasticity. 10 load steps. get J at each location
                     on crack front at each load step. 
                     at step 10 the model is approaching limit load.
                     model is set up for serial + threaded
                     parallel direct solver. 
                     model uses 20-node brick elements.

   shuttle_bolt -- fracture analysis of explosive bolt used to
                   connect Space Shuttle SRBs and external tank.
                   surface crack at root of notch in hollow
                   cylibrical bolt. static remote axial loading.

   ssy_3d_fatigue  --  3D SSY boundary layer model. 5 layers across
                       half thickness. set up to run 1 full load
                       cycle with a crack growth (by node release)
                       at peak load on the first half-cycle.
                       model uses 8-node bricks, small displacement.
                       bilinear, kinematic hardening model.
                       mesh is set up for at least 50 (uniform) 
                       increments of growth across the front.
                       ** this is a directory **

   buried_circular_flaw -- linear-elastic analysis. show equivalence of
                       J-values from remote tensile loading and
                       crack face loading.   

   buried_flaw --  linear-elastic analysis of buried flaw with almost periodic 
                   boundary conditions. flaw is circular and located at mid-height of plate.
                   20 node-brick mesh. collapsed elements along front. front
                   elements have repeated nodes and mid-side radial nodes moved
                   to 1/4 pt. location for linear elastic analysis
                   remote uniform axial load or uniform crack face load available.
                   
  cylinder_mesh_tied --  linear-elastic analysis of pipe with mesh
                          contructed with extensive tied-mesh capability

  shuttle_bolt -- nonlinear analysis of notched, hollow cyclinder.


  

