
  Here are several files to examine:

    test_1  : nonlinear analysis of a simple cantilever beam modeled
              with a few brick elements. by forcing a reduced limit on
              the number of newton iterations, the example illustrates
              the automatic, adaptive load stepping.
    test_18 : plane-strain model of an SE(B) specimen with extensive
              ductile crack growth using the Gurson model and element
              extinction. various sub-problems (a,b,c,d,e) exercise
              analysis restart, various rate dependent response models
    test_24 : hollow sphere under internal pressure. illustrates use
              of non-global constraints
    test_28 : small model of a DCB to illustrate crack growth
              using ctoa controlled node release
    test_38 : small model illustrating growth at multiple crack fronts
              using ctoa and node release
    test_14 : model of a concrete bridge with solution using the PCG solver
    test_4  : simple linear elastic, dynamic analysis of impact load
              on a M(T) specimen
    test_34*: exercises of 20-node brick element with various element
              loads, temperatures, J-integrals
    test_40 : modeling of residual stresses in the seam weld of a
              pipe using the eigenstrain technique (implemented with
              anisotropic thermal expansion coefficients)
    test_41 : crushing of a cylindrical pipe in a rigid box using a
              rigid punch. extensive using of contact, adaptive solutions,
              changing constraints, load step sizes, etc.
    test_42 : large deformation rolling of a steel bar. extensive use
              of rigid contact, load step size changes, etc.
    test_43 : analysis of a C(T) specimen using rigid contact to model
              the pin-in-hole and crack closure on the symmetry plane.
    test_44 : analysis of crack growth in a C(T) specimen using interface
              elements and cohesive material model (1 layer thick model)
              all elements have large displacement option. sub-problems
              use the simple exponential, cohesive option and the PPR
              option
    test_45 : SE(B) single-layer model w/o crack growth. has high-rate
              loading with segmental, rate-dependent stress-strain curves
    test_46 : cyclic-thermo plasticity with kinematic hardening
    test_47 : cyclic-thermo plasticity with kinematic hardening
    test_48 : tensile panel with functionally graded material. material
              properties specified at model nodes. includes elastic-
              plastic response and thermo-mechanical loading
    test_49 : computation of J-integral for a cracked panel with crack
              face loading, remote loading, unique crack tip nodes
              and repeated nodes (multiple models)
    test_50 : Mode I fatigue crack growth for a crack at a hole. plane
              strain model. crack growth by user request releases.
              one element per load cycle.
    test_51 : various patch tests for tet elements
    test_52 : test to verify tet10 elements do not volumetric lock
              under extensive plastic deformation
    test_53 : tests of tet elements using functionally graded materials
    test_54 : test J integral computation for a single-edge notch
              tensile panel with FGM material properties. problem 54_b
              has whole model rotated to verify J-integrals with
              constraints in alternate coordinate systems
    test_55 : verify deformation dependent element loads. thin walled
              internal cylinder subjected to internal pressure.
              demonstrates load step size effect in such models.
    test_56 : verify extended deformation plasticity model for functionally
              graded materials and imposed thermal loading. model for
              a long bar w/o a crack
    test_57 : plane-strain, ssy model with finite strains. uses the
              mises_hydrogen plasticity model.
    test_58 : 1 layer model of small-scale yielding boundary layer
              configuration. 20-node bricks. small-strain theory,
              power-law model, deformation plasticity, T-stress=0
              loading
    test_59 : 1 element model to exercise the cyclic plasticity
              material in uniaxial loading. two input files:
              59a and 59b use the two options - generalized_
              plasticity and nonlinear_hardening. Material
              parameters are set to match test data for an
              Inconel 718 steel. test_59_script reads output files
              and creates a Logos input file to plot results.
    test_60 : cyclic loading of a notched tensile bar. uses the
              advanced cyclic model with nonlinear_hardening and
              generalized_plasticity options. input files are
              test_60a and test_60b. There is also a results
              processing script.
    test_61 : M(T) specimen with linear-elastic FGM. Inclined crack.
              Remote tensile loading, 20-node bricks. Uses interaction
              integrals to compute mixed-mode SIFs
    test_62 : modified boundary layer model. Only has an applied T-stress.
              Plane stress, 8-node bricks. Linear-elastic, homogeneous
              material. Uses interaction integral to compute T-stress.
              Model has 180-degree segment of boundary layer
    test_63 : 360-degree boundary layer model, 1 element thick (8-node
              bricks). Linear-elastic, isotropic material. Plane strain.
              Displacements impose mode I, II and III loading with no
              T-stress. Uses interaction integrals to extract mixed-
              mode SIFs.
    test_64 : Mode I model for SE(T). Crack face loading. Linear-elastic,
              homogeneous material. Plane strain, 8-node bricks, 1 element
              over thickness. USes interaction integrals to extract SIF
              and demonstrates use of exact integration of face
              traction contributions.
    test_65 : 3-D solid cube (50x50x50) with a buried elliptical
              crack. Subject to crack face shear traction loading to
              induce Mode II and Mode III response. Linear-elastic,
              homogeneous material. Uses interaction integrals to
              extract mixed-mode SIFs at every corner node around the
              entire elliptical crack.
    test_66 : simple illustration of mesh tieing capabilities
    test_67 : more complex example for mesh-tieing. couple two
              cylinder models with different mesh refinement.
              model has geometric nonlinearity
    test_69 : illustrations of using the various options of the cohesive
              material models. In the full: models, to linear-elastic
              (solid) blocks are connected over a slanted surface via
              a layer of interface-cohesive elements. The various
              subproblems employ different cohesive formulations,
              small-large displacements, loading-unloading and
              test of analysis restart. The symmetric
              submodels test various cohesive options - boundary conditions
              must be carefully imposed. Other subproblems exercise a
              a mesh of only interface elements to study combinations
              of normal and shear loading.
    test_70 : exercise the GP cyclic plasticity model with temperature
              dependent material properties. Cube subjected to various
              loading (mechanical + temperature) histories.
    test_71 : exercise the piston theory loading for unsteady aerodynamic
              pressures on deforming surfaces of solid elements
    test_73 : a bilinear plasticty model is included in the umats.f
              distrubuted with the src code. This example exercises the
              bilinear umat.
    test_74   exercise crystal plasticity model

