PATRAN TO WARP3D ANIMATION UTILITY: README FILE


Instructions for Installation:
------------------------------

1) UNIX Users:
   The full C++ source code for this program is contained in the file 
   movie.c. To compile the program on an HP computer running HP-UX, for 
   example, type the following command:

   aCC -Aa -lm +d +p +w movie.c -o movie.go

   The executable will be named movie.go.

2) Windows Users:
   An executable file has been created and included with this distribution.  
   It is named movie.exe.  If you have Microsoft Visual Studio (C++) 
   installed, you may compile the program using the command line:
   
   cl.exe \c \Od \Zd \Tpmovie.c

   NOTE: ASCII text files on Windows (DOS) and UNIX differ in the line 
   termination sequence (the Ctrl-M issue).  If you are using a UNIX machine 
   to run PATRAN, then you will need to convert session files to UNIX ASCII
   format.  This conversion may be done on HP-UX, for example,
   by running:
	
   dos2ux < movie.ses.01 > movie.ses.02

   Here, the Windows-generated session file, movie.ses.01, is saved in 
   movie.ses.02 in UNIX-readable text.  Play movie.ses.02 in PATRAN.



Contents:
---------

This directory contains several files which will help you become acquainted
with the PATRAN to WARP3D Animation utility.  These files are described
below.

1) movie.c - contains the full source code for the program.

2) movie.exe - the pre-compiled executable for Windows users.

3) instructions.doc- a user's guide for the utility 
   program in Word format; also written in text and pdf format

4) animation.ppt - a PowerPoint presentation introducing the utility
   program, providing a brief tutorial, and showing some example animations

5) tif_to_gif - a C-shell program for UNIX users which converts TIFF images
   into animated GIF files using the ImageMagick convert utility, not 
   included with this distribution.

6) conversion_instructions.doc - a user's guide for the tif_to_gif 
   C-shell program in Word format; text and pdf versions also available

7) plates.gif - an example animated GIF file used in the PowerPoint 
   presentation

8) example_fringe_1.mpg - an MPEG movie file used in the PowerPoint 
   presentation