
NASA Sparse Solver
------------------

WARP3D offers a very fast, sparse solver derived from
a public domain code VSS developed and distributed by the
Computational Structural Mechanics Branch of the NASA-Langley
Research Center.
We have significantly modified the source code originally
obtained from NASA to make it conform to our software standards
and to adapt it to Unix workstations, NT and W95 and to the WARP3D
software architecture. Nevertheless, we feel compelled to
ask that you comply with the NASA requirement that you request
and are authorized to receive the VSS fast solver. (Access to
VSS source code is restricted to U.S. Citizens and 
Permanent residents with a "Green Card") 

To legally use the sparse solver in WARP3D, you must request
approval in writing from NASA-Langley. In most cases, this is
simply a formality. The procedure to obtain permission is
given below. 

The script "Makewarp.ksh" in the src directory asks the user whether
this solver should be installed when building WARP3D, and automatically  
installs or un-installs the solver as per the user's specifications. 
To install the NASA solver into WARP3D manually, use the following steps:

  o cd to the "nasa_solver_dir" directory in the WARP3D distribution
  o run the C-shell script:  install_sparse_solver
  o run the makefile for your computer: makefile -f Makefile.#####

If you wish to manually un-install the sparse solver:

  o cd to the "nasa_solver_dir" directory in the WARP3D distribution
  o run the C-shell script:  uninstall_sparse_solver
  o run the makefile for your computer: makefile -f Makefile.#####

Procedure to Obtain NASA Approval:
----------------------------------
The point of contact at NASA is:

      Dr. Olaf Storaasli
      O.O.Storaasli@larc.nasa.gov
      http://olaf.larc.nasa.gov/
      (good info on their web page)

You may FAX your request to: 804-864-8912 (or 7792). Questions may
be addressed to the Branch Secretary, Lani Baals (804-864-2906) or
to Olaf at (804-864-2927)

In in a typical request letter, you must:

  o  Indicate that you wish to use the derived sparse solver
     as implemented in WARP3D.

  o  Agree to provide feedback to NASA on the performance of the solvers
     for your applications (we have already provided extensive
     feedback to NASA about performance so this may not really
     be necessary.)

  o  Agree not to make the NASA code available to foreign nationals. 

  o  Agree not to release NASA code to others outside your organization
     without prior NASA approval (this is part of the WARP3D
     License agreement as well).







